Customizing OrbitDB Chapter added (#132)
orbitdb/field-manual: 05_Customizing_OrbitDB/02_Choosing_a_data_structure.md

# Choosing a data structure
Let's start implementing a comment system
by choosing how we want to represent the
comments in the Index.

> By choosing a data structure and

Reviewer: Run-on sentence.

Maybe replace with a numbered list?

working our way outwards to
the store API, that best fits
to the data structure and then
implementing the Access Controller,
since the Access Controller is very
much independent from the Store and Index.

## Requirements
Our data structure should achieve two things:

> - It should store the CID of the notes pieces and a string denoting the instrument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It should store the CID of the sheet music and a string denoting the instrument.
```

> - It should also store the comments, which themselves refer to a piece of notes or a previous comment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It should also store the comments, which themselves refer to a sheet music CID or a previous comment.
```

> The simplest data structure, that could fulfill these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplest data structure that could fulfill these
```

requirements would be a collection of trees.
Each tree's root would be the Notes pieces and the
children of that root would be the comments,
the comments comments and so on and so on.

## Generating the Trees from the `ipfs-log`
Before starting to implement this data structure,
we'll also have to consider, how to generate
these trees from the oplog or `ipfs-log`.

In the index, we'll see the oplog as an

> Array of operations, each containing these fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
append-only list of operations, each containing these fields:
```

- `op` to denote the operation being made
- `key` some key, that we can set if we so choose.
- `value` the value of the actual operation.

For our purposes there can be these operations:
- `ADDNOTES` to add a new piece of notes.
- `DELETENOTES` to delete a piece of notes.
- `ADDCOMMENT` to add a comment to a piece of notes or some other comments.
- `DELETECOMMENT` to delete a comment.

This seems pretty straight forward.

> ## What happens when we delete notes or comments, with all those comments referring to them?

Reviewer: This is a nice consideration. Will make the reader think too :+1:

## Isomorphic Bookends.
You know the drill, before starting with the actual implementation
of the Index, we have to define the bookends, that make our code
work in the browser and in NodeJS:

```js
"use strict"

try {
  module.exports = NotesIndex
} catch (e) {
  window.NotesIndex = NotesIndex
}
```
Not that complicated, really.
Because an Index does not actually depend
libraries from OrbitDB.

It is using duck typing, instead of inheritance.

## Defining the `NotesIndex` class.
Next, let's define the actual class
of the `NotesIndex`.
Add this to your file, between the bookends and the `use strict`.

```js
class NotesIndex {
  constructor() {
    this._index = {}
  }
}
```

We initialize the index to an empty object at first, because
we don't yet have any data.

## Defining the `TreeNode` helper class.
After this, let's first implement our own `TreeNode` data type,
that'll be used to represent the trees mentioned above.

Because Trees are fundamentally recursive data structures,
a Tree and a `TreeNode` are the same thing.
Both hold some data and have some children, who
are of type `TreeNode`.

```js

> class TreeNode {

Reviewer: Very cool.
